StrokeCore

 The path command included in PostScript, the basis of vector
 graphics today, would be able to construct many sans-serif
 fonts with one additional feature, the rotation
 of the butt line cap edge.  This is how an "x" would be
 made with just the spline path of the line segment
 without tracing the outline of the two strokes.  
 Currently in all bezier path commands, if 
 you set the path to render a butt line cap on both ends of
 the rendered path (after it is "stroked"), the two edges
 on both ends have to be perpendicular to their
 line segment.  They can't be rotated and so an "x" won't
 be able to look typographic.  This is to say, they didn't actually
 provide much in the way of features for the stroke command.
 The "stroke" follows the tangent of the spline uniform stroke is, 
 which is not what a real world stroke is.  That is how it
 was laid down for the computers of the time, but adding to
 the functionality of the stroke
  
 There are two features to start that would elevate vector graphics.
 First, the setting  of the nib's shape and second the ability to change
 the nib's size and rotation as it travels on the spline.  These two
 features are available in PencilKit but its purpose was to accommodate
 the input of a stylus device whereas what we are talking about is 
 the incorporation of features that reflect actual strokes 
 like these to make file descriptions more powerful.  It just happens
 that because it is a stylus device it was essential that they considered 
 strokes as part of the programming framework.  But these were
 omitted or overlooked as part of PostScript.  Possibly they were
 not included later.

 The computer scientists involved in font typography accurately
 captured the shapes of fonts in a compact file format, but they
 did not store their strokes to make the fonts.  Font files don't
 store the strokes that could make a font by hand. They store their 
 stroke shape outlines and actually they store them fused final product.  
 It is the same as making a brush stroke on a page, drawing an
 outline around that stroke, and then storing that outline in a file
 in the form of spline points.  A different approach would store, 
 like PencilKit, the spline path of the stroke as well as the nib's 
 shape, and rotation and size as it travels the path.
 
 A person who has done calligraphy and sign work and who also
 knows about these computer graphics matters will recognize, 
 especially with the arrival of PencilKit and other programming libraries
 that have the same needs, that a more powerful
 storage convention for fonts and vector paths would be details about 
 strokes on the basis of them being strokes.  For example, a font
 glyph would be made out of multiple PKStroke objects.  Many vector
 drawing figures would be made out of this as well.
 
 Consider the contrast between this and what exists today for font
 construction.  As the person who makes the font draws it on screen,
 since it is the outline of strokes that is being laid down with spline
 points the process becomes very clumsy and uncomfortable, backwards even,
 with the person needing to depict the path of a nib
 based on the outline of the shape it produces.
 
 A ductus is a reference sheet, a set of instructions for the
 order of strokes and their proportions in calligraphy.  A font
 could easily be stored in a file format that mirrors a ductus.  
 
 A key benefit is that immediately a multitude of script fonts
 will be possible to generate in a format that is native to,
 and corresponds directly to, traditional calligraphy and sign work.  
 In manual sign work there are stroke techniques to imitate type glyphs,
 fonts like helvetica or arial.  So, not only calligraphy fonts 
 could be rapidly produced from within such a file format 
 but also other serif and sans-serif fonts, since
 the Speedball C nib was used for sans-serif letterform.
 The benefits don't stop at representing more efficiently
 and naturally for the situation: a font file will be able to
 double as a set of instructions for how to make those letterforms
 manually.
 
 We will be able to better make use of the machine for not only
 font applications but also other art and design scenarios if
 the basis of a font is stroke based.
 
 --

 StrokeCore will allow constructing objects based on strokes 
 but includes construction resources.  StrokeFont is to be built on 
 top of StrokeCore.  StrokeCore will allow making ornamental designs, 
 for example, which is another reason for construction resources.
 
 Apple's PencilKit vs. StrokeCore: StrokeCore is meant 
 for design applications.
 
 Apple's PencilKit was made for stylus device stroke input, capture,
 and display.  StrokeCore references it since the same issues apply but its
 purpose is different which is to make use of brush, broad tip, and other
 implement strokes for design applications.
 
 Spines such as bezier splines are simply low level data points
 and not higher level, but PencilKit does bring it up to a higher
 level of abstraction.  That higher level is more than convenience
 for StrokeCore because it will allow the library itself to
 mirror art and design processes.
 
 The key matter is that strokes are often imitated with spline
 paths and so the data descriptions needed are completely manual
 and have no real world correspondence to art and design processes.
 Put differently, for many display situations, there is no reason
 that the working unit of data is better stroke shapes 
 than traced outlines by splines.  Of course, at the end the 
 stroke shapes will be made out of splines but that is
 simply to accomodate how graphics technologies work. 
 
 
                          StrokeCore
                            │
             ┌──────────────┴──────────────┐
             │                             │
        StrokeFont                  Other design applications
             │                             │
        Glyphs/scripts             Ornament
        Font metrics               Sign painting
        Character mapping          Diagrams
        Encoding                   Pattern construction
        
        

- Brush - variable tip surface, like
a brush, allows for letterform.


- Nib - fixed tip surface
  broad tip
  tip:  oval | rectangle | square
  speedballNib (convenience function) : C, B, etc.
  
  Stroke:
    - Azimuth
    - angle at point
    
- Stroke:
   LineSegment: Angle: length:
   
   ConstructionPoints
    A convention for stroke construction,
    allows returning to the same declared construction 
    point for.
    
    TurtleGraphics + LengthPlusAngle Addition. turtlegraphics
    allow depositing Construction objects (points, lines)
    for future reference in the sequence.
    
    ConstructionGrid (future) - for ornamental grids
    is made of ConstructionLines (linear or polar)
    and ConstructionPoints for traditional construction
    of ornamental designs.
    
    
- StrokeBasedFont

 The goal is that contained in each file are both the machine and hand 
  instructions for making the stroke based script, since when
  the script/font is stroke-based instead of spline-based the
  data is easier to make and manage.  Since we can control
  the nib type, orientation, and size over the course of
  a single spline path, we transcend the current scenario where
  strokes have to be carefully imitated and traced.  There are
  techniques, because of sign painting, such as what is found
  in the speedball textbooks, for making sans-serif fonts.
  The benefit is that the font files can be actual instruction
  files for how to lay down the script on paper with a brush,
  broad tip, square, oval, etc.

  In calligraphy, the ductus includes sequence of strokes used to 
  form letters for a script.  It usually includes the nib ladder,
  which establishes proportions for x-height, ascender, descender.
  It also includes slant degrees.
  
  With modern computing especially, this looks to be a sound
  basis for a font file format.  There are also patterns to be
  found across scripts and common techniques such as the serif 
  strokes that establish the glyph as serif, and these can
  be recognized with built-in stroke objections.
 
  Ductus - for our library, this should mirror actual ductuses for
  calligraphy in stroke order, direction.  Font will be made
  made from ductus, based off calligraphy techniques.  To begin
  with, we would make this the requirement, that all fonts not
  just produce correct final machine output but also proceed
  from a ductus that could be utilized for real-world calligraphy
  and sign painting.
  
    Ductus commands - available stroke move inventory
    common to calligraphy. based off calligraphy 
    techniques.

  Nib Ladder / Nib-width Ladder - drawing a series of squares 
  or stacked strokes with your broad-edge nib to visually establish 
  how many nib widths tall your x-height, ascenders, and descenders 
  should be. For example, in Italic you'd build a ladder of 5 squares 
  for the x-height, 4 for the ascender space, and 4 for the 
  descender space — giving you your guidelines in physical, 
  repeatable units before you start ruling lines.
    
  If a font is based off ductus, then 

   baseline
   x-height
   cap height
   descender
   ascender
   
  can be determined from the nib ladder and the proportion of
  the font can be established
  
  
  


    